## Meeting #53 - 2024-10-30
- **Duration:** 45min
- **Chair: Daniel Borkmann**
- **Participants:**
  - Dan Brown
  - Andrii Nakryiko
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Joe Stringer
  - Alan Jowett
  - KP Singh
- **Notes:**
  - [all] NCC verifier audit doc (see PDF shared in whatsapp)
    - tl;dr: [1 sec issue found](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=3878ae04e9fc24dacb77a1d32bd87e7d8108599e) & [1 verifier log issue found](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=3e9e708757ca3b7eb65a820031d62fea1a265709), all fixed upstream
    - Remaining suggestions are generic:
      - Defensive coding: We’re not going to do it as it might hide bugs
      - Breaking up complex functions: Agree, would be good to tackle
      - Documentation on verifier expectations missing: on IETF BPF wg agenda
    - Reviewed the current doc, lgtm, if you have requests for changes, I can channel them to NCC for a next revision
    - Related (Alan): PREVAIL verifier audit ongoing as well
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/pull/729
      - This permits comparing the concrete register state against the abstract register state maintained by the verifier at that point, permitting instruction level differential fuzzing via libfuzzer
    - [all] Control Plane’s [eBPF threat model](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T17dCpRnyxl4LVOegjEj1Xvg8hQT1537HtfyW5SA89o/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.6mg1vdwd2tz5) doc review
      - New version looks better than previous one, but still some feedback unaddressed
      - AI: We can edit the doc, control plane is out of hours
      - Nov 12th is eBPF day, deadlines ~1 week before
    - [all] Still on TODO is feedback for academic papers which got rejected:
      - Katia: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ZyBhXvy3oiRJKfCTxjV2fZ7rhUK_1gHK?usp=drive_link  (2 proposals)
      - Ardalan: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1cucH7livnMq5HwxtYiW8u6UfaXmHx77X?usp=drive_link
      - Marios : https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1YiK8p2NKE_sI-zHcs04lbpYt8sDABIls?usp=drive_link
    - AI: quarterly sync up with groups that received the funding [Dan]
    - [all] Bootlin SoW progressing, so far Alexis used the following # of days:
      - The overall consumption is 16.5 days on a total of 131 days available
      - Slow but steady
    - [Dan] marketing committee recap / planning discussion
      - Conf budget should be same as this year
    - [Alan] CodeRabbit on iovisor
    - [Brendan] AI flamegraphs with eBPF: https://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2024-10-29/ai-flame-graphs.html
    - [CFP for fosdem](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/12b6a2f7-a677-449d-b4f3-e2c29046229a@kernel.org/) closes Dec 1st. other deadlines?
      - Scale 22x ~March
    - LSF/MM/BPF date might still be out in the open (https://events.linuxfoundation.org/lsfmmbpf/)
      - Some folks from fs complained that its too close to easter break and therefore a handful of people might not be able to travel, most folks seem ok though. LF exploring options with the hotel.
    - [Andrii] Stepping down from BSC
    - Appendix:
      - Here are the list of Prevail issues found and fixed so far:
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/730
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/732
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/736
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/739
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/741
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/743
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/744
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/754
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/760
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/766
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/767
      - https://github.com/vbpf/ebpf-verifier/issues/768 

## Meeting #52 - 2024-08-07
- **Duration:** 1hr20m
- **Chair: Joe Stringer**
- **Participants:**
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Andrii Nakryiko
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Dan Brown
  - KP Singh
- **Notes:**
  - No blue fridays media followup
    - Alexei did an interview this week, the angle was "Would eBPF on Windows solve the Crowdstrike issue?".
  - SIGCOMM recap (Brendan)
    - Good feedback on the way the Research Fund is organized - easier for academia to engage than other funding mechanisms, as it is possible for researchers to receive the full funding. Often, institutions will take a cut, reducing the available pool for use.
    - Academics are interested in gathering more real-world data. How can we match them with real-world environments? Could be a win-win for researchers and companies.
      - Should we try to facilitate this - outline a role of eBPF Industry Advisor. Any company could nominate someone who is willing to run eBPF tracing programs in production environments. We can publish an outline of the program, expected responsibilities and outcomes for companies.
      - Brendan could reach out to prior employers to highlight the program and encourage its usage. Companies get research into their production systems, researchers get access to real-world data.
  - Research Fund grant proposals Research proposal eval
    - The BSC have previously reviewed all proposals individually.
    - There are many good proposals. What is the total pool we can make available?
      - Research Fund seems like the best "bang for buck", clearer value than the SoW mechanism.
      - Feedback input from Sridhar: SoW budget (200K), Mentorship fund (16K), Travel Fund ($9K)
    - The BSC discussed the various proposals, and identified the top 5 in precedence order.
      - 1. [Efficient IO-Intensive μs-scale Applications using eBPF](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1JaqXQqeVp5hnrz6Z5mR4yx0FAkahikMx) (EPFL)
        2. [Learned Virtual Memory with eBPF](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1-dOO7SCePlulg50ndDBWYelY5FYpgOR_) (CMU) 
        3. [Verified Path Exploration for eBPF Static Analysis](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12EFhWHhwcr9z-WtWcxLY2SNo31-fB_pT) (Rutgers)
        4. [Improving eBPF Complexity with a Hardware-backed Isolation Environment](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/14f3fSiAozVzh5E5gMjF3o8dGeNk3DZcy) (CAS Beijing)
        5. [Lazy Abstraction Refinement with Proof for an Enhanced Verifier](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1hfvOtdxECzFt4QBeiEJzGLdCQr4bCiT8) (ETH Zürich)
    - Are there country restrictions on funding allocation?
      - Dan: China expected to be OK.
    - Should we advocate for funding the top five ranked options?
      - Even if ⅗ are successful, that is a great outcome. Research does not have guaranteed outcomes but it can have big upsides.
      - Alexei: Top 5 all sound interesting.
      - Andrii/Joe: Top #3 definite yes. Less convinced by #4/#5 but abstain.
      - Brendan: All 5 yes.
      - (After meeting: Daniel: All 5 yes)
      - Main concern - whether now is the time to spend that money on those projects or whether there is benefit from not reallocating funds to the last 1-2 projects and instead leave it in the budget for potential carryover next year.
      - Alexei - this is also a great way to build relationships with these universities for long term success of eBPF.
      - Brendan - 50K can have a significant impact for universities, and on the other hand for any company involved in eBPF they are unlikely to achieve as much by allocating similar funds internally. Great usage of funds for all.
      - This can also help to demonstrate the practical value of the eBPF foundation.
    - Next steps:
      - Immediate: Agreement across BSC
        - Double-check the budgets of the proposals in order
        - Next: Board approval for fund reallocation
        - Next: Announce [AI: Dan Brown]
      - Monitoring
        - Each project - kickoff zoom call at beginning.
        - Dan: Quarterly feedback reports. Email or can be zoom.
      - Feedback
        - It's likely the researchers will be interested in getting feedback. We can figure out the details of how to engage based on interests of the researchers and BSC.

## Meeting #51 - 2024-06-27

- **Duration:** 45 min
- **Chair: Brendan Gregg**
- **Participants:**
  - Alan Jowett
  - Bill Mulligan
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Dan Brown
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - Joe Stringer
- **Notes:**
  - Discussion about the upcoming eBPF security whitepaper engagement [Brendan/Bill]
    - controlplane, goal ~60 pages on security threat model
    - Marketing committee theme for the year: Putting eBPF into production.
    - Different effort from the high level guidance being prepared by Brendan, KP.
    - Brendan: Concern about commitment from BSC to frequently meet - never run past BSC. BSC is happy to contribute but has a preference for async.
    - Brendan: Can we collaborate over Google Docs to support async development.
    - Bill: Sounds reasonable.
  - eBPF on windows not signed public release yet, hard to run/deploy progs [Brendan]
    - Challenges: hypervisor enforced code integrity, not yet kprobes equivalent
  - Discussion about Cilium on Windows: Passing PREVAIL verifier can be tricky
    - PREVAIL is not path-based like Linux. In combination with LLVM CFG optimizations, this can make it challenging to verify complex codepaths. Ongoing research area for PREVAIL.

## Meeting #50 - 2024-05-02

- **Duration:** 20 min
- **Chair: Andrii Nakryiko**
- **Participants:**
  - Joe Stringer
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Alan Jowett
  - Dan Brown
  - Andrii Nakryiko
- **Notes:**
  - Joe to give BSC presentation at LSFMMBPF2024

## Meeting #49 - 2024-03-06

- **Duration:** 24m
- **Chair:** KP Singh
- **Participants:**
  - Joe Stringer
  - Brendan Gregg
  - KP Singh
  - Alan Jowett
- **Notes:**
  - No quorum
  - Discussion on using temporary files as part of bpftrace/BCC
  - Dan: FYI the charter amendment vote has passed.
    - Next session with quorum we can do a vote for new members
  - Dan: Sponsorships
    - LSFMM signed: Two passes available.
    - Plumbers signed: 5 in-person / 15 virtual passes available.
    - Contact Dan for more info on passes.
    - Kernel Recipes: Pending.
    - Kubecon NA co-location: Awaiting event organizers

## Meeting #48 - 2023-02-21

- **Duration**: 48m
- **Chair**: Joe
- **Participants**:
  - Dan Brown
  - Alan Jowett
  - Joe Stringer
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Brendan Gregg
- **Notes**:
  - No quorum
  - Charter Amendment
    - <https://github.com/joestringer/bsc/compare/charter-2023...joestringer:bsc:charter-proposal-20240214?expand=1>
    - No obvious deviations from previous discussions.
  - Events to focus on - marketing committee expected to approve the list provided by BSC.
  - Considering security whitepaper, Brendan / KP for subject matter expertise and whether to find professional writers to work towards this.
    - Brendan feedback on State of eBPF report: Grammar can come at the expense of technical accuracy.
    - Brendan: Question about format. Would a 1-pager be useful enough to outline key messages, advice from experts.
    - eBPF is your security friend, not your enemy :)
    - Action Item (Brendan, KP) to work on draft text.
    - Drafting high level topics to cover in the whitepaper. Brendan has a list now.

## Meeting #47 - 2024-01-24

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Brendan Gregg**
- **Participants:**
  - Joe Stringer
  - Sridhar Rao
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Brendan Gregg
  - KP Singh
  - Alan Jowett
  - Andrii Nakryiko
  - Daniel Borkmann
- **Notes:**
  - 2023 year in review
    - Public: <https://ebpf.foundation/bpf-steering-committee-year-in-review/>
    - Feedback from BSC: Can we find it from the website somewhere?
    - AI(SR): Discuss with Dan where it should be linked in the website
      - For example under: <https://ebpf.foundation/bsc/>
  - 2024 goals
    - Technical success in SOWs
    - Better prepare/develop foundation tasks (BSC & GB) before encouraging more members to join the foundation, so when they do join it is a better and more valuable experience
      - Finish BSC task list (in these meeting notes way below)
      - GB task list?
    - Fruitful collaboration between BSC / GB
    - Outreach. Engage with companies using BPF to understand how they are using it and pain points.
      - Small blocker: Intel legal draft (almost done)
    - "Humble goals"
  - Alan: What is the difference between the BSC vs. IETF BPF working group?
    - IETF around standardization
    - BSC: What are pain points in the community, how can we help fund marketing and technical achievements in those areas.
    - BSC: Provide a stable basis that can be used in order to innovate on top.
  - Update: Brendan has draft legal disclaimer for meetings, almost done he hopes.
  - Proposal/SOW drafts for external contractor work (e.g. collabora, Linaro, et al) to recommend funding to the GB \[Daniel\]:
    - SR: prioritize SOWs
      - P1 High priority, P2 medium, P3 low.
    - **BPF kernel CI improvements \[P1\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HYkbDTBDMhuOuSeMaFT4RqrMTIUKWp04XvJTLyck6v4/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HYkbDTBDMhuOuSeMaFT4RqrMTIUKWp04XvJTLyck6v4/edit)
      - Daniel: Happy to help
    - **BPF CI local vmtest.sh runner \[P2\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U_NJ8axXtD_4kLrUiBF9mqauLO8IM7pZI30ItJyIgeI/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U_NJ8axXtD_4kLrUiBF9mqauLO8IM7pZI30ItJyIgeI/edit)
      - KP: Happy to help
      - Discussion about just using CI for testing rather than local.
      - Andrii: Maybe rescope this to setting up a full development environment.
      - Alexei: This could actually help with subsequent contracting.
      - AI(Daniel): Rewrite \[done\]
    - **LLVM BPF backend improvements \[P1/P2\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SY-hlMvqQeA-kH35YFqTgPwtAdz2qdOpF6DZdZHLWf0/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SY-hlMvqQeA-kH35YFqTgPwtAdz2qdOpF6DZdZHLWf0/edit)
      - Alexei: Happy to help
      - Alan: Also interested, to better support PREVAIL.
      - Discussed on the doc and added feedback comments.
    - **BPF on arm64 improvements \[P1\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GI0rVbdryz6z8GA0E2PGV6KlmHXvIoMev36RmaHTCJ8/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GI0rVbdryz6z8GA0E2PGV6KlmHXvIoMev36RmaHTCJ8/edit)
      - KP: Florent can help
      - Impact: Issues with BPF on ARM in clouds, Android.
      - Difficult to prioritize between each task, they are all very similar priority
    - **BPF on riscv improvements \[P3\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/17hLWYBM2AmpcKbgcvWirGQtIJiL8ELB195IfQd8lMQQ/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17hLWYBM2AmpcKbgcvWirGQtIJiL8ELB195IfQd8lMQQ/edit)
      - Daniel: Bjorn Topel could help
      - Not yet drafted \[done\]
      - Step 1: Enable in CI, form denylist
    - Alexei: The above are targeted towards contractors. For this to be successful, we will need to provide some guidance.
      - Practical steps: Who will find contractors?
    - KP: We are happy to put SOWs in any format that the board is looking for.
    - Sridhar: Start with what we have so far. Any contractors/vendors we work with may have further questions and we can clarify at that point.
    - Alexei: It's important to use Foundation funding in responsible ways, SOWs should be well time bounded and they appear to be formatted that way.
    - KP: Starting somewhere with one project would help to start and understand the process, commitments, etc.
    - Brendan: How do we ensure minimum expectations/requirements for contractors
      - Coding in C
      - Linux upstream experience
    - LF can begin finding vendors/contractors (see above requirements).
    - SR: Context around 2024 budget.
    - AI(SR): Start estimating the cost for contractors, prepare for GB Feb 13 meeting.

## Meeting #46 - 2024-01-10

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Andrii Nakryiko**
- **Participants:**
  - Dan Brown
  - Joe Stringer
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - KP Singh
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Andrii Nakryiko
- **Notes:**
  - Update from GB meeting: No quorum. KP was late, but it was already finished.
  - KP: Discussing with April about a potential GB+BSC summit.
    - Blocker: Legal notice for meeting. Brendan to follow up afresh now.
    - Draft by Brendan from memory (do not use):
      - "This is a public meeting to discuss open source technologies only. Please do not share anything confidential (for example, your company's roadmap or future plans).
      - Be aware that your competitors may be present in the meeting.
      - Be aware that anything you share may be adopted and sold by others."
  - Daniel to ask Sridhar to get all members of BSC onto invite for GB meetings
  - BSC Year in Review [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P52ALNYPpYzWh0Zepj9vu43UW_kK7hVvqYiw0DKoY3Q/) review/discussion
    - Emphasize travel sponsorship more
    - Where to publish? eBPF foundation site, probably.
    - Retrospective discussion
    - Everyone to review and comment within a week, then publish
  - Conferences
    - FOSDEM Feb 3-4, who will go?
      - Joe
    - IETF March 15-22
      - Alexei considering to attend
    - Kubecon EU, March 19-22
      - eBPF Security talk waitlisted for Cilium & eBPF day
    - LSFMMBPF, Salt Lake City, May
    - LPC ~Sept, Vienna, Austria
      - Overlaps with kernel recipes, GCC
      - Expected around Open Source Summit EU, Sept 16-18
