## No meeting on 2025-11-12

## Meeting #62 - 2025-10-08
Duration: 34m
Chair: 
- **Participants:**
  - Alan Jowett
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Joe Stringer
  - Kendall Perez
- **Notes:**
  - eBPF Summit: Hackathon Edition now ongoing
    - https://ebpf-summit-2025.devpost.com 
  - Benchmarking BPF
    - Paper: https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3749216
    - Would be good to loop back on this to understand the benchmarks, see whether it makes sense to publish some response.
  - eBPF for Windows progress
    - Primary focused on networking, process exec events for now
    - Working on signing
  - Research funding is going through now.


## Meeting #61 - 2025-08-14

Chair: 
- **Participants:**
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - Joe Stringer
  - Kendall Perez
- **Notes:**
  - Special meeting to consider the Academic Research Proposals
  - Quorum present
  - Summarized the asynchronous assessments of each proposal
  - Considered three top contenders
    - One group was sponsored last year but the results were inconclusive (Line 15)
      - Proposal did not go into sufficient detail about the proposed optimizations
    - Two others we would like to move ahead with sponsoring if budget is available
  - Line 8
    - Interest from multiple members
    - Caveat: Researchers may need to catch up with latest developments in this area
  - Line 12
    - Interest from multiple BSC members
    - Open code implementation on GitHub seen as a plus for the research generating real impact and demonstrating results
  - Next step: Kendall to investigate whether budget is available to sponsor two, follow up on the mailing list.
    - If so, we can make the case to the GB for two sponsorships.
    - If not, BSC to regroup and consider which to sponsor.

## Meeting #60 - 2025-08-14

- **Chair: Brendan Gregg**
- **Participants:**
  - Kendall Perez
  - Joe Stringer
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - Bill Mulligan
  - Brendan Gregg
- **Notes:**
  -  Research grant: Alexei suggested meeting on Zoom on Aug 27th to discuss; Kendall to arrange meeting. Other BSC members to review before meeting.
  -  [Security proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A3VyYjgethp9FtH_QmG8hu43HFT0yP6xJCm97lqV54c/edit?tab=t.0) for Alpha-Omega:
    - Verifier and JIT audit -- Daniel to review
      - Daniel reached out to Starlabs for an SOW offer
    - BPF + KASAN integration -- Alexei to review
      - Daniel reached out to Bootlin for an SOW offer
  - Secure eBPF development guidance, will be contracted out.
    - Brendan discussed any BSC technical doc should be reviewed and possibly vetoed by the BSC. Note that Brendan/KP also have the unfinished "security paper" document that's forward looking, whereas this proposal is more a programmer's reference. Joe: it's an audience difference.
    - Brendan: necessary to follow up with KP first, as he is eBPF security lead - not present
  - Brendan: should we have guidelines for :
    - Elevate eBPF (not the writer/company).
    - Be a really great document.
  - Charter difference: removing reference to technical projects.
    - Need a 2/3rds BSC vote, can follow up on email.
    - Removes the need for the BSC to "bless" projects.
    - BSC will get an email to vote.
  - eBPF awards?
    - Risk of companies hacking the award process to elevate themselves, can make it for individuals only?
    - Could LPC discuss/nominate/vote on the award? Loudest humm?
  - LPC round up of foundation work? As a CFP proposal.
  - SOW self test work & arm64 from bootlin is concluding, Daniel asked Alexis for the current state:
    - Status is here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yRmWIx1UrPXJOdIhI-yZNQIIoI14IBYbQeEmzAzuV_I/edit?gid=0#gid=0
    - Daniel asked for SOW offer for the remainder of work.



## Meeting #59 - 2025-07-09

- **Chair: Joe Stringer**
- **Participants:**
  - Kendall Perez
  - Joe Stringer
  - Alan Jowett
- **Notes:**
  - No quorum - many folks out this time
  - Kendall: PR up to update the meeting notes https://github.com/ebpffoundation/bsc/pulls
  - AI: Get Kendall the privileges to be able to merge these


## Meeting #58 -  2025-06-11

- **Duration:** 
- **Chair: Alan Jowett**
- **Participants:**
  - Alan Jowett
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - Kendall Perez
  - Bill Mulligan
  - Alexei Starovoitov
- **Notes:**
  - Kendall mentioned the public BSC meeting notes haven't been updated since 2024. Would we like her to own updating them? Yes
  - Bill gave a short presentation on eBPF Foundation Strategy
    - What is the goal of the foundation
      - Bring people together
      - Promote upstream projects
      - Upstream security
      - Marketing
    - Proposed options
      - Proposal to fund Foundation Fellows
      - Project based work
      - Meetup Grants
    - Brendan suggested that BSC follow up with upcoming developers in related technologies that could benefit from eBPF.
    - Alexei proposed an alternative to continue academic funding.
    - Brendan suggested yearly awards as an alternative.
    - Awards can act as an advertisement for eBPF.
    - LPC as a possible location to announce the rewards
    - BSC not convinced on fellows proposal. Marketing committee to continue investigation.

## Meeting #57 -  2025-05-12

- **Duration:** 
- **Chair: Daniel Borkmann**
- **Participants:**
  - Alan Jowett
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - Joe Stringer
  - Kendall Perez
  - Bill Mulligan
  - KP Singh
- **Notes:**
  - Proposal for auditing the kernel JIT via OpenSSF
    - Improve security awareness around eBPF
    - KP: Interesting for reassuring correctness
    - Bill: If we were to fund security work around eBPF, what would we like to see built?
      - BPF program sanitizer similar to KASAN
        - Could help with bpf arena
        - May require some compiler, kernel, BPF library changes
        - Practically speaking we could help to design and guide an external third party to build. (e.g. good experience with Bootlin)
        - Fuzzing is another use-case for it
          - Some discussion about the value of fuzzing. A BPF KASAN sanitizer could provide more value for developers and existing users but also fuzzers
        - KP to write up a summary for Bill around sanitizer âœ…
      - Another perspective on this is: What has been under-funded in BPF?
    - Reaching out to specific communities
      - Many communities may not have clicked on an IOVisor or BPF link, lack of awareness of the capabilities that are available.
      - This could be a relatively simple example like "cool (reference) BPF app in python" and generate some buzz around that (blog post, etc).
      - Targeted reach out for a range of communities, go through one by one. What kind of communities? Language communities, cloud communities
  - Academic Funding
    - We have published one blog post with one group (CAS); another is in the works
  - Example patterns for how to expand the ecosystem through foundation activities
    - [Rust foundation fellowships](https://rustfoundation.org/grants/fellowships/)


## Meeting #56 -  2025-03-12

- **Duration:** 
- **Chair: Brendan Gregg**
- **Participants:**
  - Alan Jowett
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - Joe Stringer
  - Kendall Perez
  - Tobias Waldekranz
- **Notes:**
  - ply
    - Background: Well-known project, particularly in embedded space, for instance because of lack of LLVM requirement.
    - Tobias self-introduction, background in switchdev
    - What's missing right now? Type information. Everything is a u64.
    - Target: kernel tracing
    - Aim for ply 3.x: Split out the backend as a dedicated library for better isolation
    - Discussion on BCC on libbpf to build & distribute small (~300KB), signed binaries for biosnoop & similar tools. Caveat: mutable inputs such as cgroup ids etc.
      - Smaller for embedded to have 1 ply/bpftrace + 100 scripts than 100 purpose-built tools.
    - Brendan question: ply case studies?
      - Joe: Offer to explore this with Bill / eBPF Foundation
    - Potential users of a new backend (libkx):
      - ply - Currently has equivalent functionality, this would split out the backend for reuse elsewhere.
      - mdiotools - read/write registers from ethernet phys. Currently uses a simple VM for atomic ops on an io bus. Not using eBPF today.
      - XDP - Read a config file, generate XDP for filtering some packets to userspace. Match MAC, forward to userspace ringbuffer.
      - Some private projects as well.
    - Q's:
      - User support: uprobes was added to ply 1.x, but without type info it's limited. Can use libdwarf from pahole.
      - Windows:
      - Successors: No clear successor yet.
      - BPF foundation:
      - Q's for us:
    - BSC member
      - Any new member should be able to outline how they can help to move eBPF forward, and be prepared to help move eBPF forward in the background - things like working on ensuring kernel configs are optimal in distros, etc.
      - Maybe we want to pick an hrs/week to help describe the BSC commitment (like other volunteer projects do), e.g., 2 hrs/week.
    - NANOG
      - Mid june
      - Focus is datacenter, k8, eBPF a potential area for people to learn more about
    - LSF/MM/BPF tentative schedule out: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PgjzaPOnIHgRIfqgwDNiftY5Xr6aU3NLWtDs7zFoIvc/edit?gid=1852749899#gid=1852749899 

## Meeting #55 -  2025-02-12

- **Duration:** 32 min
- **Chair: Joe Stringer**
- **Participants:**
  - Alan Jowett
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Dan Brown
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - Joe Stringer
  - Kendall Perez
  - KP Singh
- **Notes:**
  - Kendall - Introduction
    - Brendan: Providing some context about eBPF foundation. Keeping core components open, trying to avoid situations where eBPF is held back by commercial efforts that put legal/patent concerns around key technology.
  - BSC nomination by the board - Jose
    - Note: Not yet officially nominated by the board.
    - Brendan had reached out but no response yet. Brendan to reach out again.
    - Goal: Be prepared to have Jose visit the BSC meeting next month.
  - Academic proposals
    - Looks like the updates are all now posted onto the BSC list.
    - Alexei: No concerns to date.
    - Please take a look if you haven't had a chance yet. Deadline: 19th
    - AI(Joe): After deadline, prepare response for each report.
  - LSFMM/BPF
    - Invited two of the groups from the academic proposals. Two have responded with interest.
    - Invitation list: 24.
  - Draft response for libkx - Sending immediately after this meeting
  - eBPF Code Signing
    - There will be a session at LSF/MM/BPF (Blaze)
    - LSF/MM/BPF has no live streaming this year.
    - Daniel: We may try to do a remote session specifically for signing to provide an opportunity for Alan, KP to join.
      - Alexei: Skeptical we can make this work.
    - KP: For awareness, Canada, Ireland are frequently difficult regarding visas.

## Meeting #54 -  2025-01-08

- **Duration:** 60 min
- **Chair: Joe Stringer**
- **Participants:**
  - Alan Jowett
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Dan Brown
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - Joe Stringer
  - KP Singh
- **Notes:**
  - 2025 plans
    - Academic research grants (2024)
      - Heard from Kumar / EPFL
      - No news from others?
      - Quarterly updates should be due
      - Let's establish a periodic cadence of sync.
      - Preference: Async 1-page writeup for status initially. As progress is made, it is likely the BSC can provide more valuable guidance.
      - Dan/Sridhar to follow up
    - Follow up on ply discussion
      - Revisiting budget: Already allocated for the full year
      - Proposal in ply did not seem like a worthwhile direction to sponsor
      - More interested in pushing this effort towards bpftrace
      - We should invite him to discuss with BSC
        - Joe to draft a response.
      - Academic research grants (2025)
        - Alexei: It would be good to see that the current process is working before deciding about allocation for this year.
        - Revisit timeline in middle of year.
      - Bootlin SoW
        - Seems to be going well, work continues
      - Threat model v2?
        - KP is interested to drive this.
      - New round of verifier audit?
        - Last one was successful, it found some real bugs
        - KP/Alexei: Likelihood of useful results in a new round is low
      - Conference sponsorship
        - LSF/MM/BPF (March)
        - Linux Plumbers (Dec)
        - General approach: These two really benefit from BPF foundation sponsorship, and they serve the BPF community well. Other conferences with BPF as a topic are generally not struggling.
      - Conference attendance
        - FOSDEM
        - LSFMMBPF
        - Kubecon
        - LPC
      - Upcoming topics
        - Guidance for getting into BPF in 2025
          - Revise [bpf guidelines 2022](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pzkUqyQU65V0WIukqK4EU_u3f8h35i-ddORI9WbYatw/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.aw7749v0j1o7)
          - Emphasis: Building blocks should be part of open source.
        - Good practices for active participation in BPF (for startups)
          - Demonstrate by example with Isovalent
        - Revise BPF roadmap for LSFMM/BPF?
          - Let's look offline.
        - BPF shared libraries
          - Exploring how general BPF libraries can be published for consumption across multiple languages - Rust, C, Go, etc.
          - Example: python stackwalker
          - Brendan: Put it into language runtimes?



